# Fetch Receipt Processor
This repository contains a web service that fulfills the documented API for processing receipts and calculating points. The API specification is described below. Please refer to the provided [api.yml](./api.yml) file for a formal definition of the API.
## Summary of API Specification

### Endpoint: Process Receipts

* Path: `/receipts/process`
* Method: `POST`
* Payload: Receipt JSON
* Response: JSON containing an id for the receipt.

Description:

This endpoint is used to submit a receipt for processing. It takes in an input JSON object representing the receipt as the request payload. Upon successful processing, it returns a JSON object with a unique ID assigned to the receipt. 

This returned ID is the ID that would be passed into `/receipts/{id}/points` to get the number of points the receipt was awarded. Points earned by all reciepts follow the rules mentioned further below.

Note: Data does not need to survive an application restart. In-memory solutions are used to track any data generated by this endpoint.

Example Response:
```json
{ "id": "7fb1377b-b223-49d9-a31a-5a02701dd310" }
```

### Endpoint: Get Points

* Path: `/receipts/{id}/points`
* Method: `GET`
* Response: A JSON object containing the number of points awarded.

Description:

This endpoint is used to retrieve the number of points awarded for a specific receipt. It requires the receipt ID generated by `/receipts/process` to be included in the path parameter `{id}`. The response contains a JSON object with the number of points awarded for that receipt.
Example Response:
```json
{ "points": 32 }
```

---

## Rules

These rules collectively define how many points should be awarded to a receipt.

* One point for every alphanumeric character in the retailer name.
* 50 points if the total is a round dollar amount with no cents.
* 25 points if the total is a multiple of `0.25`.
* 5 points for every two items on the receipt.
* If the trimmed length of the item description is a multiple of 3, multiply the price by `0.2` and round up to the nearest integer. The result is the number of points earned.
* 6 points if the day in the purchase date is odd.
* 10 points if the time of purchase is after 2:00pm and before 4:00pm.


### Examples

```json
{
  "retailer": "Target",
  "purchaseDate": "2022-01-01",
  "purchaseTime": "13:01",
  "items": [
    {
      "shortDescription": "Mountain Dew 12PK",
      "price": "6.49"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Emils Cheese Pizza",
      "price": "12.25"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Knorr Creamy Chicken",
      "price": "1.26"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Doritos Nacho Cheese",
      "price": "3.35"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "   Klarbrunn 12-PK 12 FL OZ  ",
      "price": "12.00"
    }
  ],
  "total": "35.35"
}
```
```text
Total Points: 28
Breakdown:
     6 points - retailer name has 6 characters
    10 points - 4 items (2 pairs @ 5 points each)
     3 Points - "Emils Cheese Pizza" is 18 characters (a multiple of 3)
                item price of 12.25 * 0.2 = 2.45, rounded up is 3 points
     3 Points - "Klarbrunn 12-PK 12 FL OZ" is 24 characters (a multiple of 3)
                item price of 12.00 * 0.2 = 2.4, rounded up is 3 points
     6 points - purchase day is odd
  + ---------
  = 28 points
```


```json
{
  "retailer": "M&M Corner Market",
  "purchaseDate": "2022-03-20",
  "purchaseTime": "14:33",
  "items": [
    {
      "shortDescription": "Gatorade",
      "price": "2.25"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Gatorade",
      "price": "2.25"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Gatorade",
      "price": "2.25"
    },{
      "shortDescription": "Gatorade",
      "price": "2.25"
    }
  ],
  "total": "9.00"
}
```
```text
Total Points: 109
Breakdown:
    50 points - total is a round dollar amount
    25 points - total is a multiple of 0.25
    14 points - retailer name (M&M Corner Market) has 14 alphanumeric characters
                note: '&' is not alphanumeric
    10 points - 2:33pm is between 2:00pm and 4:00pm
    10 points - 4 items (2 pairs @ 5 points each)
  + ---------
  = 109 points
```

---

## Installation Guide
This guide below will walk you through the installation process of the latest versions of Python, Flask, and Postman on various operating systems. Note that Postman is for API testing only and all soets of other alternative softwares can be used to test the given API and related code too. 
## Python

Windows or macOS:
  
1. Visit the official Python website: python.org.
2. Navigate to the Downloads section and click on the latest Python release for Windows or macOS.
3. Scroll down to the Files section and select the appropriate Windows or macOS installer based on your system architecture (32-bit or 64-bit).
4. Run the installer and follow the prompts.
5. Ensure that the "Add Python to PATH" option is checked during the Windows installation.
6. Once the installation is complete, open the command prompt or the terminal and type python --version to verify the installation.

Linux: 

1. Open a terminal window and type the following command to update the package lists: `sudo apt update`
2. Install Python by running the command: `sudo apt install python3`
3. After the installation is complete, type `python3 --version` to verify the installation.

## Flask 
1. Open a terminal or command prompt.
2. Type the following command to install Flask: `pip install flask`

## Postman 

Windows or macOS:

1. Open a web browser and go to the official Postman website: postman.com.
2. Download the correct version based on your OS and system archetecture.
3. Run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions.

Linux:

1. Open a terminal window.
2. Type the following commands to download and install Postman:
```bash
wget https://dl.pstmn.io/download/latest/linux64 -O postman.tar.gz
sudo tar -xzf postman.tar.gz -C /opt
rm postman.tar.gz
sudo ln -s /opt/Postman/Postman /usr/bin/postman
```

---

## API Testing
To get the points by using the code and the API, follow the steps below:

1. Run [fetch_receipt_processor.py](src/fetch_receipt_processor.py) on Python and make sure the Flask application is running on your local machine. You can run the Flask application by executing the Python script containing the code provided.
2. Once the Flask application is running, you can use an HTTP client tool like Postman to send a POST request to the `/receipts/process` endpoint with the provided input JSON.
3. Get the unique ID json of your receipt If you are using Postman:

   Open Postman and create a new request.

   Set the request URL to `http://localhost:5000/receipts/process`.

   Set the request method to POST. In the Headers section, add a header with the key as `Content-Type` and value as `application/json`.
   
   In the Body section, select the "Raw" option and set the content type to "JSON (application/json)".

   Copy the provided input JSON (refer examples folder) and paste it into the request body. Click SEND to send the request. This POST request should receive a response containing the number of points awarded in a JSON format. The response will include the ID assigned to the receipt.

4. Get the points awarded for the receipt if you are using Postman:

   Set the request URL to http://localhost:5000/receipts/{id}/points, replacing {id} with the actual receipt ID received in the previous response.

   Set the request method to GET.

   Click the SEND button to send the request. The response to this GET request will contain the number of points awarded for the receipt.
   
